# go-makepkg

Tool for fast packaging Golang programs under the archlinux.

It will automatically generate appropriate PKGBUILD and systemd.service files.

## How to use

0. `go get github.com/seletskiy/go-makepkg`;
1. `mkdir some-directory`;
2. `cd some-directory`;
3. `mkdir -p etc/mycoolprog/`;
4. Copy any other required files for you program, like config files:  
   `cp <somepath>/example.conf etc/mycoolprog/main.conf`;
5. Omit `-s` flag if you do not want service file:  
   `go-makepkg -sB "my description" git://url-to-prog/repo.git **/*`;
6. Package is ready for install and located at `build/<blah>.tar.xz`;

## Typical invocation

```
go-makepkg -gsB "my cool package" git://github.com/seletskiy/go-makepkg *
```

Will generate .gitignore, PKGBUILD and .service file for specified repo (e.g.
go-makepkg) and include all files under current directory to the package.

If you do not want to build package automatically, omit `-B` flag.

See `go-makepkg -h` for more info.

`go-makepkg` by itself can be packaged using itself:  
`go-makepkg -B "go-makepkg tool" git://github.com/seletskiy/go-makepkg.git`

### Pass package version into golang code

As you know, you can change global variables of your Golang program in compling
step using go build options, in following example you can change variable
`packageVersion` using ldflags.

```go
package main

import "fmt"

var blahme = "autogenerated"

func main() {
    fmt.Println(blahme)
}
```

And after compling this code like as following:
```
go build -ldflags="-X main.blahme=testvalue" -o test .
./test
```

You will see `testvalue` instead of hardcoded `autogenerated` string.

It's very useful opportunity, if you want escape the hell of versioning your
software and shift this work to PKGBUILD.

`go-makepkg` can do it for you, all of you need it's specify a variable name of
variable name using `-p <var>` flag:

```
go-makepkg -p version "go-makepkg tool" git://github.com/seletskiy/go-makepkg.git
```
